---
layout: post
title: Beware log-transformed least-squares
---

Want to make an n-pointed snowflake. Start by drawing any line. Then work out a pair of reflection lines that makes the thing close.

Note: this project ended up not working out the way I initially thought I would. You can't make a snowflake close unless each of its arms subtends an angle of 2pi/n, no matter how you draw reflection lines. So non-origin based reflections was interesting, but not actually needed...

Here's an n-pointed snowflake graph:

https://www.desmos.com/calculator/qt2kexehfc

Topics:
* Solving for a reflection line given a mapping of one segment to another segment
* nth roots of unity

Basic strategy for solving the reflection-finding problem is to notice that the reflection vector is orthogonal to the difference of the input vector and the output vector, and that the midpoint of any input-output pair is on the reflection line.

a' = p1 + s(a-p1)s^{-1}
b' = p1 + s(b-p1)s^{-1}

Only determines s up to scaling, and p1 can be any point that is on the reflection line.

Can take

s = I ((a'-b') - (a - b))/|(a'-b') - (a - b)|

and can take

p1 = 1/2 (a' + a)

or use the mapping of b, or use the mapping of the midpoint.

In the snowflake problem, it's natural to take the tip (or the innermost point) as a fixed point, which simplifies the reflection some.

Can talk more generally about how point groups in 2D are always generated by a pair of (unit?) vectors. Refer to Hestenes' papers on crystalography.

http://fredrikj.net/blog/2013/02/precise-computation-of-roots-of-unity/
